

===== PAGE 1 =====

640 Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking Research Article
Robust RMSA design for shared backup path
protection based EON against nonlinear
impairments
V/e.sc/n.sc/k.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.sc/s.sc/h.sc C/h.sc/e.sc/b.sc/o.sc/l.sc/u.sc,1,* S/a.sc/d.sc/a.sc/n.sc/a.sc/n.sc/d.sc/a.sc B/e.sc/h.sc/e.sc/r.sc/a.sc,2 AND G/o.sc/u.sc/t.sc/a.sc/m.sc D/a.sc/s.sc1
1Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India
2University of Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus
*Corresponding author: venkat.chebolu@iitkgp.ac.in
Received 2 May 2022; revised 25 June 2022; accepted 28 June 2022; published 22 July 2022
We focus on quality of transmission (QoT) guaranteed routing, modulation, and spectrum allocation (RMSA)
in shared backup path protection (SBPP) based elastic optical networks (EONs) in the presence of nonlinear
impairments. Allocating a suitable modulation format (MF) to ensure end-to-end QoT (E2E QoT) in a survivable
EON offers critical challenges because each single link failure results in the failure of different network connec-
tions. As a consequence, different working and backup path allocations exist in the network for different failures,
which lead to different nonlinear interference (NLI) power on any frequency slots (FSs). This demands a robust
RMSA design to decide the suitable MF for each FS to ensure the E2E QoT under two scenarios: any single link
failure and no failure. For this purpose, we propose a robust SBPP-NLI aware (SBPP-NLIA) algorithm to ensure
E2E QoT with a multi-objective function that enables the joint sharing of backup FSs as well as transceivers and
minimizes the overall network fragmentation. In the process, we introduce robust bitloading in our SBPP-NLIA
to allocate different MFs for different FSs where we also perform optimal MF allocation for each FS of every
connection. Next, we ensure the QoT of existing connections while establishing each new connection without
reserving any margin. To achieve this with less complexity, we propose a recursive method to calculate the NLI
for existing connections. Simulation results demonstrate that our proposed SBPP-NLIA performs 10.01% and
14.19% better in terms of, respectively, the bandwidth blocking probability and fragmentation compared to a
full-load assumption scheme with an 85 Tb/s trafﬁc load. © 2022 Optica Publishing Group
https://doi.org/10.1364/JOCN.462919
1. INTRODUCTION
Elastic optical networks (EONs) hold great promise as a future
backbone network architecture to support heterogeneous and
bandwidth-hungry trafﬁc demands [1]. Routing, modulation,
and spectrum allocation (RMSA) is a fundamental issue in
EON where the route and required number of frequency
slots (FSs) with corresponding modulation formats (MFs)
are assigned for each connection, owing to spectrum contigu-
ity and continuity constraints [1]. RMSA in EON is greatly
inﬂuenced by underlying physical layer impairments such as
nonlinear impairments, which cause interference to lightpath
signals in transparent optical networks and consequently the
signal to interference plus noise ratio (SINR) of each con-
nection is degraded. This results in an increment of the bit
error rate (BER) of lightpath signals, which leads to degraded
end-to-end quality of transmission (E2E QoT). Several studies
[2–10] have already been reported in the literature regarding
the RMSA design problem considering nonlinear impair-
ments. However, those studies are restricted to unprotected
EONs only, which ignored the issues related to link failure
scenarios.
A network outage due to link failures contributes severe
penalties that make the design of a survivable EON a com-
pelling task. Shared backup path protection (SBPP) is regarded
as the most beneﬁcial one among all possible protection mech-
anisms due to key features such as effective protection capacity
sharing, fast recovery, and less complexity [11]. There have
been a few studies in the literature [12–22] where authors
addressed RMSA problems in an SBPP EON. Those studies,
however, were implemented without taking nonlinear impair-
ments into account, which leads to the degradation of the E2E
QoT of lightpath signals in working and backup paths.
Since both survivability and E2E QoT are important attrib-
utes of any optical network, in this work we focus on RMSA
design in a nonlinear-impairment-aware SBPP EON to ensure
both protection in the case of link failures and the minimum
required E2E QoT against nonlinear impairments. It is note-
worthy that designing an E2E QoT ensured RMSA against
nonlinear impairments in an SBPP EON is a challenging
problem and is not a simple combination of existing RMSAs
1943-0620/22/080640-14 Journal © 2022 Optica Publishing Group

===== PAGE 2 =====

Research Article Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking 641
of SBPP EONs and nonlinear-impairment-aware unprotected
EONs. This is because, in unprotected EONs, the effect of
interference due to nonlinear impairments on any frequency
slot (FS) of a particular connection depends on the alloca-
tion of other network connections. However, in the case of
survivable EONs, if a particular link fails in the network, the
working paths with the failed link are no longer active and the
corresponding backup paths are activated. This indicates that
each link failure scenario results in a different set of working
and backup paths for existing connections. Therefore, dif-
ferent allocations exist for different link failures in survivable
EONs. As a consequence, the effect of interference due to
nonlinear impairments on the FSs of working and backup
paths of any connection in survivable EONs depends not only
on the allocation of other connections but also on the failed
link. This indicates that the MF to be allocated on a particular
FS to ensure QoT also depends on the failed link. Therefore,
it requires a robust optimization based RMSA, where we
compute the nonlinear interference value (on each FS) cor-
responding to every link failure and perform the allocation
(FS and corresponding MF) based on the maximum possible
interference (considering each link failure scenario) while
establishing working and backup paths for each connection.
This means that we allocate the worst-case MF (robust MF) to
any FS considering each failure scenario. Since different FSs
experience different maximum possible interferences, the MFs
to be assigned to each FS of a connection are also different,
which we call robust bitloading. Due to this, the number of
FSs required to satisfy the data rate demand of each connection
is unknown beforehand, unlike existing studies where distance
adaptive RMSA was performed [13]. In addition, implement-
ing robust bitloading while establishing any connection is a
critical task because the FSs of a particular working path (or
backup path) create signiﬁcant nonlinear interference with
each other. T o address this issue, we propose greedy optimal
allocation of MFs to each FS of every connection. Further,
since our aim is to design an RMSA in an SBPP EON, sharing
of resources such as FSs, transmitters (Txs), and receivers (Rxs)
among the backup paths for different connections should be
enabled, provided that their corresponding working paths are
link disjoint.
T o address all of the issues mentioned above, we design
a robust RMSA with what we believe to be a novel multi-
objective function to jointly share the backup FSs and
Txs, as well as the Rxs and to minimize the overall network
fragmentation.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2,
we present the related works in the existing literature. In
Section 3, we describe the challenges and contributions of our
considered problem. In Section 4, we present the system model
of our work. The proposed heuristic algorithm is illustrated
in Section 5. Simulation results for performance evaluation
are discussed in Section 6. Finally, we conclude the paper in
Section 7.
2. RELATED WORK
In this section, we describe the works related to RMSA
algorithms in a nonlinear-impairment-aware QoT assured
unprotected EON as well as an SBPP EON. With respect
to nonlinear-impairment-aware dynamic RMSA studies in
unprotected EONs, Beyranvand and Salehi in [2] investigated
dynamic RMSA by modeling the nonlinear effects of the ﬁber
to ensure the E2E QoT . They demonstrated through simula-
tions that their proposed schemes show superior performance
compared to existing studies. Fontinele et al. [3] presented
a nonlinear impairment RMSA algorithm in a transparent
EON. They focused on minimization of the circuit blocking
probability due to degraded E2E QoT during new circuit
establishment. In [4], Dharmaweera et al. proposed RMSA
schemes by using a Gaussian noise model to accurately account
for the nonlinear impairments. In [5–10], researchers con-
sidered nonlinear impairments in RMSA design under static
trafﬁc scenarios to ensure minimum E2E QoT for all connec-
tions. None of these studies, however, was extended to design
survivable EONs.
Considering the dynamic trafﬁc scenario, Chen et al. [12]
proposed a minimum free spectrum block consumption
algorithm to address the RSA problem in an SBPP EON
to minimize the total number of frequency slots used in the
network, subject to the condition that the joint failure prob-
ability of the working and backup routes of every connection
is less than the given threshold. Wang et al. in [13] developed
spectrum window plane based algorithms to solve the RSA
design problem for an EON with SBPP . They also introduced
differentiated sharable FS cost to improve the shareability of
backup FSs. Lourenço and César in [14] presented an effective
heuristic to derive solutions for RSA in an SBPP EON, which
showed better performance compared to existing algorithms in
terms of blocking probability, average size of slot groups, and
spectrum utilization ratio. Luoet al. [15] introduced a heuristic
algorithm based on deep reinforcement learning to improve
the overall performance of an EON with SBPP . Hsuet al. [16]
investigated the RSA problem in an SBPP EON and proposed
two heuristics to reduce spectrum usage in the network. With
the help of simulation results, they proved that their algorithms
obtained enhanced blocking performance. SBPP EON prob-
lems under a dynamic trafﬁc scenario were also investigated in
[17–19].
The studies mentioned above concentrated on the sharing
of backup FSs, ignoring the sharing of backup transceivers,
which is also an important resource to use efﬁciently. However,
there have been few works where researchers designed an
SBPP EON considering the sharing of transceivers among
backup paths. Eira et al. in [20,21] proposed a multi-objective
function based optimization framework to enable the sharing
of both transceivers and the FSs and also examined different
transceiver sharing scenarios. Thanh et al. [22] considered
several protection architectures to study the performance of
ﬂexible transponders. Their proposed method provides advan-
tages such as usage of spectrum efﬁcient modulation formats
and backup transceiver sharing. Further, Walkowiak et al. in
[23,24] focused on sharing transceivers and spectrum resources
in space division multiplexed EONs. However, all of these
studies ignored the effect of nonlinear impairments in the RSA
design of an SBPP EON.
It should be noted from the literature above that existing
studies focused on providing either E2E QoT guaranteed
allocation or protection against link failures. However, as men-
tioned in the introduction, any practical network design must

===== PAGE 3 =====

642 Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking Research Article
guarantee the E2E QoT and the network survivability, which
is challenging because it involves a robust optimization-based
RMSA.
3. CHALLENGES AND CONTRIBUTIONS
In this section, we illustrate the challenges and contributions of
our considered problem. In this regard, we ﬁrst provide a brief
description of the effect of nonlinear impairments with respect
to an EON. In the case of an EON, each FS causes nonlinear
interference (NLI) to the same FS and to other FSs present
in the same link. The NLI on any FS due to itself is termed as
self-channel interference (SCI) and, when due to other FSs, is
called cross channel interference (XCI). The summation of the
XCI and SCI at any FS gives the total NLI at that FS. Next, we
demonstrate the challenges associated with guaranteeing the
E2E QoT against NLI in the RMSA design of an SBPP EON
with a suitable example.
A. Challenges to Guaranteeing E2E QoT Against NLI
We consider a seven-node network, which is shown in Fig. 1.
We assume three connections [namely,C1(3, 5), C2(3, 6), and
C3(1, 6)], whose working and backup paths are represented by
W1, W2, W3 and B1, B2, B3, respectively, as shown in Fig. 1.
Each rectangular box in Fig. 1 represents the FS used by either
the working or backup path of the connection. We analyze the
effect of NLI on FS 2 of W3 present in link 2–6 under differ-
ent link failure scenarios. First, we consider that there is no
network failure, as shown in Fig. 1(a). In this case, only W3 is
active in link 2–6; therefore, FS 2 ofW3 gets XCI from FS 1 of
W3 and SCI from itself. Next, we assume that link 3–7 failed in
the network. This leads to the failure of W2, which is rerouted
through the backup pathB2, as shown in Fig. 1(b). Due to this,
link 2–6 consists of two active connections (i.e., W3 and B2).
Now, FS 2 of W3 gets XCI from FS 1 of W3 and 7, 8, and 9 of
B2 and SCI from itself. Further, the failure of link 3–1 is con-
sidered in Fig. 1(c). Because of this, W1 of C1 failed, which is
then rerouted through backup B1. In this case, W3 and B1 are
active in link 2–6; as a result, targeted FS 2 of W3 experiences
the XCI from FS 1 of W3 and 6, 7, 8, and 9 of B1, as shown in
Fig. 1(c). From the discussion above, it is important to observe
that each single link failure results in different NLI power on
the considered FS 2. This is because for each link failure the
network consists of different active working and backup paths
of existing connections. As a consequence, NLI power on any
FS varies based on which link of the network fails, as shown
in the example above. The scenario above is the same for each
FS in the network. Since the information about link failure is
unknown in advance, we must employ a robust design based
RMSA to ensure the E2E QoT during any link failure and no
link failure condition. In this robust design, before allocating
any FS, we calculate the end-to-end NLI power corresponding
to each single link failure as well as no link failure and obtain
maximum (robust NLI) among all NLIs. This gives us the
robust or minimum possible end-to-end signal to the SINR
at that FS. Now, based on the minimum possible SINR, we
decide the highest available MF (robust MF) to be allocated to
the considered FS so that the SINR threshold (SINR th) of the
MF for the required BER (10−9 in our case) is greater than or
equal to the minimum possible SINR at the considered FS. As
a result, each FS should be allocated to different MFs (robust
bitloading) because the minimum possible SINR at different
FSs is different. Robust bitloading presents additional chal-
lenges because the number of FSs required for the demanded
data rate is unknown. Further, in addition to ensuring the
E2E QoT of each allocating FS, we also should guarantee
that the E2E QoT of FSs for already existing connections is
not disturbed, which again requires calculation of robust or
minimum possible SINR. Further, allocation of FSs for any
connection (either working or backup) should be such that the
QoT of each FS is guaranteed because each FS of the same con-
nection offers signiﬁcant NLI to each other. For this purpose,
we propose an optimal method for MF allocation for each
connection. We implement the robust design based RMSA
above for each FS in the working and backup paths of every
connection. Since we allocate any FS based on the minimum
possible SINR (considering each link failure scenario), E2E
QoT is ensured regardless of a failed link. Developing this kind
of robust design based heuristic algorithm for dynamic trafﬁc
scenarios is a challenging task.
(a) (b) (c)
Fig. 1. Effect of nonlinear interference on FS 2 in link 2–6 under different link failure conditions: (a) no link failure, (b) 3–7 link failure, and
(c) 3–1 link failure.

===== PAGE 4 =====

Research Article Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking 643
B. Contributions
• We propose what we believe to be a novel robust design
based heuristic algorithm that ensures E2E QoT guaranteed
allocation in both the working and backup paths of each con-
nection under two conditions: any single link failure and no
link failure.
• Since we calculate actual robust NLI, we ensure spectrum
efﬁcient (capacity maximization) allocation compared to a full-
load assumption (assuming all FSs are lit) QoT aware scheme.
In addition, actual NLI calculation allows us to use different
MFs for different FSs (robust bitloading) because the effect
of robust NLI on each FS is different. This further improves
the spectrum efﬁciency of our proposed RMSA compared to
a full-load assumption scheme where uniform modulation for
each FS is allowed because the NLI at any FS is the same.
• We guarantee the QoT of existing connections (without
reconﬁguration) while establishing each new connection sim-
ilar to a full-load assumption scheme. T o achieve this with less
complexity, we propose a recursive method of NLI calculation
for existing connections where we use the previously calculated
NLIs for each connection to incrementally add them to NLI
due to the allocation of the incoming connection.
• We ensure the QoT of existing connections while estab-
lishing any new connection without reserving any margin. This
results in spectrum savings compared to margin-based schemes
proposed to guarantee the QoT of existing connections.
• We propose a greedy optimal method of MF allocation
for FSs of each connection against the NLI effect on each FS
due to other FSs of the same connection.
• We illustrate, with the help of simulations, that our
proposed robust RMSA design shows better performance
compared to a full-load assumption scheme [10.01% and
14.19%, respectively, in terms of bandwidth-blocking proba-
bility (BBP) and fragmentation] and the existing SBPP-SWP
algorithm (8.84% and 20.63%, respectively, in terms of BBP
and fragmentation) at a 85 Tb/s load.
4. SYSTEM MODEL
In this work, we focus on ensuring the E2E QoT at each FS in
the working and backup paths of every connection against NLI
and ampliﬁed spontaneous emission (ASE) noise in a trans-
parent SBPP EON for dynamic trafﬁc. Since each link failure
offers different NLI on any FS, we propose a robust RMSA
design to ensure E2E QoT under any single link failure and no
failure conditions. We consider 32 GBaud bandwidth-variable
transponders (BVTs), where each BVT is fully tunable and
can perform any type of modulation at any center frequency.
This enables us to perform bitloading in spectrum allocation,
where each FS can be modulated with different MFs. Each
32 GBaud BVT can provide 50 Gb/s (assuming dual polari-
zation including 20% FEC overhead) with BPSK modulation
in an FS of 37.5 GHz (by combining three frequency slices
each of 12.5 GHz) [25]. In addition, we share the FSs and
BVTs (which are limited in number in every link and node,
respectively) among various backup paths, provided that corre-
sponding working paths are link disjoint. Further, we assume
that equal power is transmitted in each FS of every connection.
Hence, power loading is not considered in this work. We also
assume that the system is operated well above the shot noise
limit; therefore, the coherent receiver ideally maps the optical
ﬁeld into the electrical domain and the noise terms are just the
ASE optical power and nonlinear optical interference power.
5. PROPOSED SBPP-NLI AWARE (SBPP-NLIA)
ALGORITHM
In this section, we propose a novel robust design based heuristic
algorithm to provision E2E QoT guaranteed allocation against
NLI under any single link failure and no failure conditions.
Before describing the proposed heuristic, we demonstrate
three novel features of our heuristic compared to existing stud-
ies: 1) a robust design based RMSA, 2) a recursive method to
calculate the maximum possible NLI to minimize computa-
tional complexity, and 3) employment of a robust bitloading
technique in the presence of NLI.
A. Robust Design Based RMSA
Our goal is to provide E2E QoT guaranteed allocation in the
working and backup paths of each connection under any single
link failure and no failure scenarios. This demands a robust
design (as illustrated in previous sections), where we need to
compute robust or maximum possible end-to-end NLI (con-
sidering each link failure scenario) on the considered FS f in
path p, as described in following steps.
1. For the Working Path
We explain the steps presented in this section with the help of
an example. For this purpose, a sample network scenario (the
same as in Fig. 1) is considered in Fig. 2. Each rectangular box
in Fig. 2 denotes the FS used by the connection. We assume
that connections C1 and C2 (whose working and backup paths
are denoted by W1, W2 and B1, B2, respectively) are already
present in the network. Now, we consider the arrival of connec-
tion C3 and explain the establishment of its working path W3.
In the example, we focus on FS 2 in link 2–6 of W3 and the
same process is applied to other FSs and links ofW3.
First, we obtain three matricesUe j , Ve i,e j , and Znl f,e j based
on current network trafﬁc, where
Ue j =
(ue1 ue2 · · · ue L
)
. (1)
Each element in Ue j denotes the set of working and backup
connections present on link e j , where {e 1, e 2,..., e L }
denotes a set of all links in the network. From our example,
Fig. 2. Network scenario example.

===== PAGE 5 =====

644 Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking Research Article
u2−6 = {B1, B2}. Next, we ﬁnd
Ve i,e j =


ve1,e1 ve1,e2 · · ·ve1,e L
... ... ... ...
ve L,e1 ve L,e2 · · ·ve L,e L

, (2)
where each element in Ve i,e j represents the set of active work-
ing and backup connections present in link e j with the failure
of link e i. From our example, the set of active working and
backup connections present in link 2–6 with the failure of link
3–7 is given by v3−7,2−6 = {B2}; similarly v3−1,2−6 = {B1}.
Note that ve i,e j may also contain working connections,
depending on the allocations of existing connections. Now, we
obtain
Znl f,e j =
(znl f,e1 znl f,e2 · · · znl f,e L
)
. (3)
Each element in Znl f,e j denotes the set of active working
connections present in link e j when there is no failure in the
network. From our example, Znl f,2−6 =φ because there are
no working connections in link 2–6 if there is no failure in the
network.
Step 1: For each linkl (i.e., e j for some j) in the considered
working path p (i.e., for each l ∈ l p, where l p denotes the set
of links in working path p), we obtain ul from Ue j . From
our example, p → 1−2−6, l p = {1−2, 2−6}; now, accord-
ing to Step 1, we ﬁnd ul for l = 1−2 and 2–6; for instance,
u2−6 = {B1, B2}.
Step 2: XCI on f (the targeted FS that we want to allo-
cate for incoming connection c ) present on each l ∈ l p due
to any FS ( f ′) allocated to any existing connection c ′ ∈ ul is
calculated as
x c ic ′, f ′
f,l =1bG(b)G2(b′) ln |µ|; ∀ f ′ ∈ F c ′
p′,
∀ l ∈ l p, ∀ c ′ ∈ ul, (4)
where
 = 3γ 2
2πα |β2| and µ =
⏐⏐ f − f ′⏐⏐ +1b′/2
| f − f ′| −1b′/2 .
For XCI calculation above, we employ the Gaussian noise
model illustrated in [5,26].G(b) in the equation above denotes
the signal power spectral density withb as the center frequency
and1b as the bandwidth.α represents the power attenuation,
β2 is the ﬁber dispersion, and γ denotes the ﬁber nonlinear
coefﬁcient.1b′ is the bandwidth of the other signal with b′ as
the center frequency. Further, 1b =1b′ = 37.5 GHz as we
consider one FS at a time. F c ′
p′ denotes the set of FSs allocated
in chosen path p ′ for connection c ′.
From our example, our targeted connection, FS, and
link are c = W3, f = 2, and l = 2−6, respectively. Further,
u2−6 = {B1, B2} and F c ′
p′ = {6, 7, 8, 9} and {7, 8, 9} for
c ′ = B1 and B2, respectively. From Eq. (4), we calculate
x c iB1, f ′
2,2−6∀ f ′ = {6, 7, 8, 9} and x c iB2, f ′
2,2−6∀ f ′ = {7, 8, 9}.
x c iB1, f ′
2,2−6 denotes the XCI on the targeted FS 2 from the FS
f ′ allocated to connection B1 in link 2–6. In this way, we
calculate XCI on FS 2 from each allocated FS of every existing
connection in links 1–2 and 2–6 ofW3.
Now, overall XCI onf present on eachl ∈ l p from any exist-
ing connection c ′ ∈ ul is calculated as
x c ic ′
f,l =
∑
f ′∈F c ′
p′
x c ic ′, f ′
f,l ; ∀ l ∈ l p, ∀ c ′ ∈ ul. (5)
Each term on the right-hand side of Eq. (5) is computed in
Eq. (4).
Step 3: Note that, while establishing p, we temporarily store
each decided FS in an array Yslot and its corresponding MF
in Ymod until we get the sufﬁcient FSs to satisfy the required
data rate. Since each FS allocated to working path p of con-
sidered connection c gets the XCI from other FSs allocated in
path p of the same c , our considered FS f on each l ∈ l p gets
XCI from each FS f ′ ∈ Yslot of current connection c , which is
denoted as x c ic, f ′
f,l and calculated using the formula given in
Eq. (4). Now, the overall XCI onf present on each l ∈ l p from
the same connectionc is computed as
x c ic
f,l =
∑
f ′∈Yslot
x c ic, f ′
f,l ; ∀ l ∈ l p. (6)
In our example, let us consider that FS 1 is already decided
with MF 8-QAM to establish W3. In this case, Yslot = {1}
and Ymod = {8-QAM}. Therefore, our targeted FS 2 gets
XCI from FS 1 of the same connection W3 and, in this case,
x c iW3
2,2−6 = x c iW3,1
2,2−6.
Step 4: The SCI on f from itself present on each l ∈ l p is
computed using the Gaussian noise model [5,26] as
s c ic, f
f,l =1bG 3(b) ln
⏐⏐⏐⏐
π 2β2(1b)2
α
⏐⏐⏐⏐ ; ∀ l ∈ l p. (7)
In our proposed robust RMSA design, before establishing
any FS f in considered path p, ﬁrst we obtain the set of active
working and backup connections present in link l of path p
considering the failure of a particular link (refer to Step 5).
Next, we compute the NLI on the targeted FS f in link l from
the FSs of active working and backup connections obtained
above (refer to Step 6). We repeat this procedure for each link
present in path p and compute the E2E NLI on FS f in p
(refer to Step 7). We repeat the procedure above for each single
link failure and no failure scenarios and obtain the maximum
NLI among them (refer to Steps 6–10). Since we employ the
maximum possible NLI (considering each link failure scenario)
to compute SINR, no matter what link fails, the minimum
E2E QoT is guaranteed at each FS.
Step 5: For each link l ∈ l p, we ﬁnd out ve,l ∀e ∈ E/l p
from the matrix Ve i,e j , where E represents the set of links in
the network. From our example, l p = {1−2, 2−6}, l = 2−6,
v3−7,2−6 = B2 andv3−1,2−6 = B1. In a similar way, we ﬁnd out
ve,2−6 andve,1−2 ∀ e ∈ E/l p.
Step 6: We evaluate the NLI on f present on each l ∈ l p
from every connection c ′ ∈ve,l and the current connection c
for each single link failuree ∈ E/l p as
nl ic,e
f,l =
∑
c ′∈ve,l
x c ic ′
f,l + x c ic
f,l + s c ic, f
f,l ; ∀ e ∈ E/l p, ∀ l ∈ l p.
(8)
On the right-hand side of the equation above, the ﬁrst
term denotes the XCI on FS f from FSs of other connections

===== PAGE 6 =====

Research Article Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking 645
Fig. 3. Effect of XCI and SCI on FS 2 in link 2–6 for 3–7 link
failure.
[calculated in Eq. (5)], the second term represents the XCI on
f from the remaining FSs of the same connection [calculated
in Eq. (6)], and the last term is SCI onf from itself [calculated
in Eq. (7)]. In our example case, Eq. (8) can be written as
follows for 3–7 link failure:
nl iW3,3−7
2,2−6 =
∑
c ′∈v3−7,2−6
x c ic ′
2,2−6 + x c iW3,1
2,2−6 + s c iW3,2
2,2−6. (9)
Figure 3 shows the individual XCI and SCI terms that affect
FS 2 in link 2–6 when 3–7 link fails.
Similarly, for the 3–1 link failure,
nl iW3,3−1
2,2−6 =
∑
c ′∈v3−1,2−6
x c ic ′
2,2−6 + x c iW3,1
2,2−6 + s c iW3,2
2,2−6. (10)
We write Eq. (9) for each link failure case except the links
(1–2 and 2–6 in our example) present in the considered
path p.
Step 7: We calculate the end-to-end NLI on f in working
path p from the existing connections and the same connection
for each single link failuree ∈ E/l p as
nl ic,e
f, p =
∑
l ∈l p
nl ic,e
f,l ×η; ∀ e ∈ E/l p, (11)
whereη =
⌈
1l
span length
⌉
;1l is the link distance in km.
According to our example, for the 3–7 link failure,
nl iW3,3−7
2, p =(nl iW3,3−7
2,1−2 + nl iW3,3−7
2,2−6 ) ×η; (12)
for 3–1 link failure,
nl iW3,3−1
2, p =(nl iW3,3−1
2,1−2 + nl iW3,3−1
2,2−6 ) ×η. (13)
We write Eq. (12) for each link failure case except the links
(1–2 and 2–6 in our example) present in considered pathp.
Step 8: The maximum possible end-to-end NLI on f
considering each single link failuree ∈ E/l p is enumerated as
nl ic,maxe
f, p = max
e ∈E/l p
(
nl ic,e
f, p
)
. (14)
For our example,
nl iW3,maxe
2, p = max
(
nl iW3,3−7
2, p , nl iW3,3−1
2, p , ...
)
. (15)
Step 9: The end-to-end NLI on f in working path p from
the existing connections and the same connection for no
link failure case is denoted by nl ic,nl f
f, p and is determined by
replacing e = nl f andv = z in Eqs. (8) and (11).
Step 10: The maximum possible end-to-end NLI (NLI max)
on f considering each single link failure e ∈ E/l p and no link
failure case is computed as
nl ic,max
f, p = max
(
nl ic,maxe
f, p , nl ic,nl f
f, p
)
. (16)
By using above NLI max, we calculate the minimum pos-
sible end-to-end SINR (SINR min) on the considered f . The
SINR is calculated by using the standard method described
in Subsection II.C.5 of [7] and also presented in Appendix B
for better readability. In the rest of the paper, we use NLI max
to denote the maximum possible (considering each link fail-
ure scenario) end-to-end NLI. Similarly, we use SINR min to
represent the minimum possible end-to-end SINR.
2. For the Backup Path
Robust RMSA design for the backup path is carried out by exe-
cuting the same steps described for the working path (refer to
Subsection 5.A.1) with the following changes. First, we replace
p (working path) with pb, p (backup path pb of working path
p) in all the steps. Next, unlike the working paths, we compute
the NLI max on the FSs of the targeted backup path by only
considering the failure of links present in the corresponding
working path because the backup path is active only when
its working fails. For this purpose, we replace e ∈ E/l p with
e ∈ l p in Steps 6–8 and nl ic,maxe
f, p with nl ic,max
f, pb, p in Step 8 while
discarding Steps 9 and 10 in Subsection 5.A.1.
B. Recursive Method of NLI max Calculation of
Existing Connections ( Cexi)
While allocating the considered FS f for the current connec-
tion, besides ensuring the E2E QoT at that f against NLI
from the FSs of Cexi, we also should guarantee that the E2E
QoT of the FSs of Cexi are not disturbed due to the allocation
of the considered f . For this purpose, we must calculate the
NLImax and SINR min on the FSs of Cexi assuming that the
considered f is allocated to check whether the SINRmin on all
those FSs is satisfying the SINRth of the MFs assigned to them.
T o compute the SINRmin, we have to ﬁrst compute the NLImax
at each FS by executing all the steps mentioned Subsection 5.A.
However, calculating this NLImax on each FS of Cexi (working
and backup paths) before allocating every FS of the current
connection involves a huge computational complexity. This
is a more serious problem for dynamic trafﬁc scenarios where
RMSA is done online.
T o overcome this, we propose what we believe to be a novel
recursive method where we implement the following steps.
First, we store the calculated NLI values (in Step 7 and Step 9
of Subsection 5.A.1 for each single link failure and no failure
case) on each FS during the establishment of every connection.
This gives us the database of NLI values on each FS of every
established connection for each link failure and no failure
case. Now, if a new connection comes, then the updated NLI
(including the NLI from the new FS that is being established)
on any FS of Cexi is computed by just adding the new NLI

===== PAGE 7 =====

646 Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking Research Article
(from the new FS to the existing FS) to the already stored NLI
value of the existing FS for each single link failure and no link
failure case. Next, repeating Steps 8 and 10 of Subsection 5.A.1
helps to ﬁnd the updated NLImax considering each link failure
and no link failure case. In this way, we signiﬁcantly reduce the
computational complexity.
Next, we calculate the NLI max on the FSs of the backup
paths of c ′ ∈ Cexi considering the allocation of f . This is
achieved by following the similar process employed for the
working path by replacing p ′ (working path) with p ′
b, p ′
(backup path p ′
b of working path p ′). We exclude no failure
case because the backup paths are only active when there is a
failure.
Further, we also use the same algebraic method to calculate
NLImax on each decided FS ( f ′) of the current connection
c (i.e., FSs belongs to Yslot), assuming the allocation of the
considered f .
C. Employing Robust Bitloading and Greedy Optimal
MF Allocation
As mentioned in previous sections, the NLI max at each FS is
different. Therefore, different FSs must be assigned with differ-
ent MFs to ensure E2E QoT , which we call robust bitloading.
Employing robust bitloading for each connection consid-
ering each failure scenario is a challenging task because the
number of required FSs for a requested data rate is unknown
beforehand. In addition, implementing robust bitloading
offers additional difﬁculties because every allocated FS of a
connection creates signiﬁcant NLI to other decided FSs for the
same connection as all FSs stay close to each other. Assume,
for example, that a connection arrives with a data rate demand
of 600 Gb/s. Then consider that we could allocate the ﬁrst FS
with 8-QAM to attain a 150 Gb/s effective data rate (assuming
the base data rate per FS is 50 Gb/s with BPSK in a slot width
of 37.5 GHz). Now, assume that the next FS allocated with
QPSK disturbs the QoT of the ﬁrst FS. Then, we must change
the MF of the ﬁrst FS to the next suitable low level MF based
on a new NLI to ensure the QoT . Consider that the MF of
the ﬁrst FS is changed to QPSK. This means that the data rate
allocated with these two FSs is 200 Gb/s, and 400 Gb/s is still
required. Now, while establishing the third FS, the QoT of
the ﬁrst two FSs might also be disturbed because of the third
FS; in this case, we must change the MFs of the ﬁrst two FSs
accordingly to guarantee the QoT at them. This procedure
should be repeated until the requested data rate is satisﬁed.
Therefore, it is challenging to implement such an algorithm
design that is incorporated through the greedy optimal method
proposed in Algorithm 3.
D. Heuristic Algorithm
We employ the following notations throughout our heuristic:
lp: Set of links in working pathp.
lp,pb: Set of links in backup pathpb of working path p.
N(Ac
p): Number of elements inAc
p.
N(Ac
pb,p): Number of elements inAc
pb, p.
Cexi: Set of existing connections in the network.
Fig. 4. Flow chart of the heuristic for working path allocation.
objc
pb,p: Objective function value considering the allocations
of c exi and allocations in working pathp and backup path pb of
current connection c .
Figure 4 shows the ﬂow of the heuristic for the working path
allocation. The ﬂow for backup path allocation is obtained
by replacing the second block of Fig. 4 with the block that
contains Algorithm 4, CFSS b. Further, the working path in
the description of b in Fig. 4 is replaced with the backup path.
Note that Algorithm 1 goes to Algorithm 4 only after executing
Algorithms 2 and 3.
T o explain Algorithms 1–3 with an example, we take the
same network scenario considered in Fig. 2. In this example, we
explain the establishment of connection C3 (whose requested
data rateρc is 600 Gb/s) by assuming that connectionsC1 and
C2 are already present in the network.
Algorithm 1. SBPP-NLIA Heuristic Algorithm
Input: G(V, E), c(s, d,ρ c ).
Output: Working and backup path with allocated FSs and MFs.
1 for each incoming connection c do
2 Find K shortest working paths and for each working path,
calculate K b backup paths (link disjoint to corresponding
working path) using Dijkstra’s algorithm.
3 nmin =
⌈ ρc
50∗M
⌉
;
4 for each working path p of connection c do
5 Obtain Ac
p
6 for i = 1:N(Ac
p) do
7 (obji, Yi,slot, Yi,mo d) = CFSSw(i, Ac
p,ρ c)
8 end for
9 Choose i for which objective function value is minimum.
10 Choose NYi,s l o t (number of elements in Yi,s l o t) free Txs
and Rxs.
11 for each backup path p b of working path p do
12 Obtain Ac
pb, p
13 for i = 1:N(Ac
pb, p) do
14 (obji, Yi,slot, Yi,mo d) = CFSSb(i,ρ c, Ac
pb, p)
15 end for
16 Choose i for which objective function value is
minimum and objc
pb, p ← obji.
17 Choose NYi,slot free and shareable Txs and Rxs.
18 end for
19 end for
20 obj(c) = min
pb, p
(objc
pb, p)
21 Choose the combination of working path p and backup path
pb for which objc
pb, p is minimum to allocate corresponding
FSs with MFs, Txs, and Rxs.
22 end for

===== PAGE 8 =====

Research Article Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking 647
1. Algorithm 1 (SBPP-NLIA)
We consider an EON denoted by G(V, E), where V and E
denote, respectively, the set of nodes and the bidirectional ﬁber
links. We represent each connection as c(s, d,ρ c ), where s, d
andρc are, respectively, the source, destination, and requested
data rate of connection c . As shown in Fig. 4, for each incom-
ing connection c, we execute Algorithm 1 to establish the
working and backup paths. As we perform the spectrum allo-
cation using the robust bitloading technique (different FSs of a
connection are assigned different robust MFs), the number of
required FSs to establish a working or backup path for a given
connection is unknown. Therefore, we ﬁnd out the minimum
number of FSs (considering the best case scenario) required
to satisfy the data rate (ρc ) request of the considered connec-
tion c as nmin =
⌈ ρc
50∗M
⌉
, where M is the spectrum efﬁciency
of the highest available MF , 50 denotes the base data rate of
50 Gb/s per FS with BPSK (line 3, Algorithm 1). From our
example, nmin =
⌈ 600
50∗4
⌉
= 3, where we assume that 16-QAM
is the highest available MF . In the considered working path
p, we obtain the array Ac
p, where each element denotes the
FS position from where the nmin number of contiguous FSs
are free in the working path p of c (line 5 in Algorithm 1).
Therefore, each element in Ac
p gives the contiguous free FS
set (CFSS) in p. In our example, we explain the allocation of
the working path W3 and the same procedure is applied to the
remaining working and backup paths of connection C3. For
the considered path W3, we assume that the common free FSs
available in the whole path (1–2–6) are 2, 3, 4, and 5. From
this, Ac
p = {2, 3}, where FS 2 and 3 denotes the different con-
tiguous free FS sets (CFSS) {2, 3, 4} and {3, 4, 5}, respectively.
Then, we start with the ﬁrst CFSS (i.e., {2, 3, 4}) to implement
Algorithm 2.
In the working path p for each CFSS, we call Algorithm 2
(line 7, Algorithm 1), which returns the decided FSs with the
MFs and objective values corresponding to each CFSS (line
25, Algorithm 2). The functioning of Algorithm 2 is explained
in Section 5.D.2. Next, we choose the CFSS that gives the
minimum objective value (line 9, Algorithm 1) and store the
decided FSs, Txs, and Rxs corresponding to the chosen CFSS.
In our example, we call Algorithm 2 for CFSS {2, 3, 4} and
{3, 4, 5}, which gives two different sets of FSs and objective
values, and we will choose one set corresponding to the min-
imum objective function. The objective of our optimization
framework is given as
minimize
N∑
i=1
(Ti + Ri)
∑
l ∈L
(F − Hl) . (17)
As F denotes the total number of FSs present in each link l
and Hl is the highest indexed FS allocated in link l, F − Hl in
the denominator of Eq. (17) gives the available contiguous free
FSs in link l after the highest indexed allocated FS. Since we
are minimizing the inverse of that, it ensures the allocation so
that the highest indexed allocated FS in each link is minimized,
which results in a minimum fragmentation. This also further
facilitates the sharing of backup FSs in each link. Further, Ti
and Ri in Eq. (17) denote, respectively, the number of Txs
Algorithm 2. CFSSw (i, Ac
p,ρ c)
1 Yslot ← Empty array
2ρ′
c =ρc
3 f = Ac
p(i)
4 whileρ′
c> 0 do
5 X = QoT(c, f, p, Yslot)
6 if X = 1 then
7 obji ← ∞, break
8 else
9 if Tx and Rx are free then
10 Store the targeted f and its MF in the arraysYslot and
Ymod, respectively. Update the required data rate (ρ′
c ).
11 ifρ′
c> 0 then
12 f = f + 1
13 if this new FS f is not free then
14 obji ← ∞, break
15 end if
16 end if
17 ifρ′
c = 0 then
18 Compute objective obj [using Eq. (17)] by
considering allocations (FSs, Txs, and Rxs) in
Ce x i and current connection. Do Yi,s l o t ← Ys l o t,
Yi,mo d ← Ymo d, obji ← obj
19 end if
20 else
21 obji ← ∞, break
22 end if
23 end if
24 end while
25 Return obji, Yi,s l o t, Yi,mo d
and Rxs allocated at node i and N represents the total number
of nodes present in the network. Therefore, the minimizing
objective function ensures the allocation of the minimum Txs
and Rxs, which enables the sharing of backup Txs and Rxs.
After ﬁnding allocable resources in the considered work-
ing path p, we start with its corresponding backup paths pb
(line 11, Algorithm 1). For the considered backup path, we
obtain Ac
pb, p and follow a similar procedure mentioned for the
working path, except that Algorithm 4 is called for each CFSS
instead of Algorithm 2. Note that Ac
pb, p, free Txs, and Rxs for
the considered backup path are obtained so that the sharing
of Txs, Rxs, and FSs among the backup paths occur subject
to the link disjoint constraint. The link disjoint constraint
states that resources among backup paths can be shared only if
their corresponding working paths are link disjoint. From our
example, backup paths B1 and B2 share FSs 7, 8, and 9 in their
common link 2–6 as their working paths W1 and W2 are link
disjoint. Similarly, Txs and Rxs at the common nodes of dif-
ferent backup paths are also shared by following the procedure
above. We repeat the steps mentioned above for every working
path and each backup path of the current c . As a result, we
obtain the K ∗ K b number of possible objective values for c .
Next, we select the working and backup path combination,
which gives the minimum objective function value (among
K ∗ K b possible) to do the ﬁnal allocation of FSs with MFs,
Txs, and Rxs (lines 20 and 21, Algorithm 1).

===== PAGE 9 =====

648 Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking Research Article
2. Algorithm 2 (CFSS w)
For each CFSS, Algorithm 1 calls Algorithm 2 to execute the
following steps and accommodate the required data rate in the
considered p. In this process, Algorithm 2 returns the decided
FSs with the MFs and the objective value corresponding to
each CFSS, as shown in Fig. 4.
Step 1: For a considered CFSS, start with the ﬁrst FS f
using Ac
p (line 3, Algorithm 2). From our example, CFSS
is {2, 3, 4} and f = 2. It is noteworthy that we store each
decided FS (which satisﬁed the QoT) and their corresponding
MF in the arrays Yslot and Ymod, respectively, until we get the
required number of FSs to establish considered working path
p. For example, let us consider that FS 1 with MF 8-QAM
is decided for W3 before considering the current FS 2. In this
case, Yslot = {1} and Ymod = {8-QAM}.
Step 2: For targeted FS f , call Algorithm 3 (line 5,
Algorithm 2), which returns the information on whether
f is allocable or not based on QoT conditions. Algorithm 3 is
described in Subsection 5.D.3.
Step 3: If FS f ( f = 2 in our example) is allocable, we check
the availability of free Txs at s and Rxs at d to allocate f . If
free Txs and Rxs are available, store the targeted FS f and its
MF in Yslot and Ymod, respectively (line 10, Algorithm 2). Let us
assume that, FS 2 is allocated with QPSK; then from our exam-
ple, updated Yslot and Ymod are {1, 2} and {8-QAM, QPSK},
respectively. Next, update the required data rate (ρ′
c)
(line 10, Algorithm 2) as follows. ρ′
c = requested data rate−
(50 ∗ sum of spectrum efﬁciencies of each MFpresent inYmod).
From our example, ρ′
c = 600 −(50 ∗(3 + 2)) = 350 Gbps.
The return objective value is inﬁnite if free Txs and Rxs are not
available to allocate f (line 21, Algorithm 2).
Step 4: If the required data rate (ρ′
c) is positive, go to
the next contiguous FS (i.e., f = f + 1; lines 11–12,
Algorithm 2). From our example, f = 2 + 1 = 3. If this
new f is free, execute Steps 2–5; if not, return the objective
value as inﬁnite (line 14, Algorithm 2).
Step 5: If the required data rate(ρ′
c) is zero, we compute the
objective function value by considering the allocations of FSs,
Txs, and Rxs for c exi and the current c using Eq. (17) (line 18,
Algorithm 2).
3. Algorithm 3 (QoT)
As described in Fig. 4, for each FS, Algorithm 3 is called, which
returns whether FS is allocable or not based on the E2E QoT
guarantee. As mentioned in previous sections, E2E QoT guar-
anteed allocation involves two steps: First, ensuring E2E QoT
for each FS that is being allocated for incoming connection
c against NLI from the FSs allocated for Cexi, and second,
the E2E QoT of FSs of the working and backup paths of Cexi
should not be disturbed due to NLI from FSs allocated for
current connection c . Based on this, Algorithm 3 executes the
following steps.
Step 1: Compute SINR min (considering each link failure
scenario) on the targeted FS f due to NLI from the FSs of
Cexi (using Subsection 5.A) and calculate SINR min on the FSs
of working and backup paths of Cexi by taking NLI from the
targeted FS (using Subsection 5.B) (lines 1–6, Algorithm 3).
Algorithm 3. QoT(c, f, p, Yslot)
1 Calculate NLImax at targeted FS f using Subsection 5.A
2 Calculate NLImax at FSs (including NLI due to targeted f )
decided for current connection using Subsection 5.B
3 Calculate NLImax at FSs (including NLI due to targeted f ) in
working and backup paths of Cexi using Subsection 5.B
4 Calculate ASE noise in working and backup paths of current and
existing connections using Eq. (23) of [7]
5 Compute SINRmin (considering NLImax) at targeted FS f and at
FSs decided for current connection
6 Compute SINRmin (considering NLImax) at FSs in working and
backup paths of Cexi
7 if SINRmin at all FSs in working and backup paths of C exi is greater
than SINRth of MFs allocated to them then
8 if SINRmin at decided FSs of current connection does not satisfy
the SINRth of MFs allocated to them then
9 Change the MF of FSs (to next low level MF) for which
the above condition is not satisﬁed and go to Step 8
10 else
11 if SINRmin at targeted f is greater than SINR th
of any available MF m then
12 Choose the highest MF among all m which satisfy
the above condition and assign to f
Return X = 2
13 else
14 Return X = 1
15 end if
16 end if
17 else
18 Return X = 1
19 end if
Step 2: If SINR min at the FSs of the working and backup
paths of c ′ ∈ Cexi is greater than or equal to the SINR th of
the assigned MFs (line 7, Algorithm 3), go to Step 3; if not,
return X = 1, which indicates that f is not allocable (line 18,
Algorithm 3). In our example, for instance, FS 6 of exist-
ing connection B2 is assigned with QPSK and the SINR min
(including NLI from targeted FS 2) at 6 is 18 dB. Now, since
the SINRth of QPSK is 15.6 dB (for the BER of 10 −9 [27]),
which is less than the computed SINR (18 dB), the QoT of
FS 6 of the existing connection B2 is not disturbed due to the
targeted FS 2. We repeat this procedure for each allocated FS
(of Cexi) present in 1–2–6. In this process, if our targeted FS 2
does not disturb the QoT of any existing FS, we move to the
next step; if not, return X = 1, which indicates that f = 2 is
not allocable.
Step 3: If the SINR min at any f ′ ∈ Yslot is less than SINR th
of the assigned MF (line 8, Algorithm 3), we change the MF
of that f ′ to the next lowest level one whose SINR th is less
than SINRmin and go to Step 4 (line 9, Algorithm 3). In our
example, we assumed that FS 1 with MF 8-QAM is decided
for W3 before considering the current FS 2; i.e.,Yslot = {1} and
Ymod = {8-QAM}. Now, a signiﬁcant NLI exists on the existing
FS 1 due to FS 2. As a result, if the SINRmin on FS 1 becomes
less than the SINR th of 8-QAM, then we change the MF of
FS 1 to the next lower-level MF , which satisﬁes the SINRth. We
repeat this process while allocating each new FS in the working
path p of the current connection c . If, for any f ′ ∈ Yslot, no

===== PAGE 10 =====

Research Article Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking 649
Algorithm 4. CFSSb (i,ρ c, Ac
pb,p)
1 Obtain the number of free plus shareable Txs and Rxs ats and d,
respectively, for backup path pb of working path p.
2 Repeat Algorithms 2 and 3 by replacing pb, p (backup path pb of
working path p) in place of p (working path).
low-level MF is available that satisﬁes SINR th, then return
X = 1, which indicates that f is not allocable. In this way, we
are implementing the greedy optimal MF allocation for each
connection, which was discussed in Section 5.C. Note that the
optimality proof is given in Appendix A.
Step 4: If the SINR min at each f ′ ∈ Yslot is greater than or
equal to the SINRth of the assigned MF , we check whether any
MF is available whose SINR th is greater than the SINR min at
the targeted FS f . If any MF is available, we choose the maxi-
mum available MF to FS f (line 12, Algorithm 3) and return
X = 2, which indicates that f is allocable. In our example, if
BPSK and QPSK are available, whose SINR th is greater than
the SINRmin at targeted FS 2, then we choose QPSK to FS 2.
However, if no MF is available for f that satisﬁes the SINR
condition, return X = 1 (line 14, Algorithm 3).
4. Algorithm 4 (CFFS b)
For each CFSS, Algorithm 4 is called to allocate the required
data rate in the considered backup path pb, which returns
the decided FSs with the MFs and objective values corre-
sponding to each CFSS to Algorithm 1, as shown in Fig. 4.
For this purpose, the same steps are executed, as described in
Section 5.D.2, by implementing the changes mentioned in
Algorithm 4.
5. Complexity Analysis
The computational complexity of our proposed heuristic for
each incoming connection by using our recursive method is
O(|K ||K b||F |3|L|2|M||Cexi|), where |K |, |K b|, |F |, |L|,
|M|, and |Cexi| are the total number of working paths (of one
request), the backup paths (of one working path), the FSs in a
link, the links, the MFs, and the existing connections, respec-
tively. Further, the memory required for the recursive method
is 2|F ||Cexi||L| + |F ||Cexi| + |F | bits. On the other hand, the
complexity of our heuristic without our recursive method is
O(|K ||K b||F |3|L|4|M||Cexi|). From this, we can observe that
the computational complexity was reduced by a factor of |L|2
at the cost of a little memory requirement with our proposed
recursive calculation method.
6. RESUL TS AND DISCUSSION
In this section, we present the performance analysis of the pro-
posed SBPP-NLIA algorithm under a dynamic trafﬁc scenario.
We consider the 14-node network shown in Fig. 5(a), where
each link denotes a bidirectional ﬁber. We assume 110 FSs in
each link, where every FS occupies 37.5 GHz (by combining
three frequency slices, each of 12.5 GHz). Simulations are
carried out by placing various numbers of Txs and Rxs (1400,
1200, 1000, and 800) in the network that are uniformly dis-
tributed at each node. We further consider four MFs such as
BPSK, QPSK, 8-QAM, and 16-QAM with their respective
SINR thresholds (approximate) 12.6 dB, 15.6 dB, 19.2 dB,
and 22.4 dB for a BER of 10 −9 [7,27]. The relationship
between the SINR and BER [27] is presented in Appendix B.
Next, it is assumed that the arrival process ( λ) and the hold-
ing time (1/µ) of each connection follows, respectively, the
Poisson and exponential distribution.
Each connection is randomly generated with a data rate
requirement between 50 to 700 Gb/s subject to uniform
distribution. Between the source and destination of each
connection, K = 3 working paths and for each working path
K b = 3 (if not possible K b = 2) backup paths (link disjoint
to working path) are obtained using Dijkstra’s algorithm. For
each total trafﬁc load, the experiment is repeated 30 times by
generating 1,00,000 connections randomly (following uniform
distribution) each time and the average value is computed with
a 95% conﬁdence interval. Values of the nonlinear coefﬁcient
(γ ) and ﬁber dispersion ( β2) for our considered Gaussian
model [5] are 1.33 W−1km−1 and −21.7 ps2/km, respectively.
We adopted the broadcast and select node architecture [7]
and simulation parameters are chosen to be similar to that
employed in [7].
A. Performance Evaluation of Proposed SBPP-NLIA
First, we evaluate the performance of our proposed SBPP-
NLIA algorithm in terms of bandwidth blocking probability
(BBP) and overall network fragmentation. BBP and fragmen-
tation (in each link) [28] are calculated as given in
BBP = Bandwidth of blocked connections
Bandwidth of all connections , (18)
Fragmentation = 1 − largest continuous free FSs block
total free FSs .
(19)
Figure 5(b) shows the variation of BBP with respect to the
total trafﬁc load and the number of available Txs and Rxs.
We observe that the BBP increases as the trafﬁc load increases
and the number of available Txs and Rxs decreases due to the
unavailability of resources (FSs, Txs, and Rxs). Because of this,
the overall fragmentation also increases with an increase in
the trafﬁc load and a decrease in the available Txs and Rxs, as
described in Fig. 5(c). Further, the multi-objective function
formulated in our proposed heuristic attempts to maximally
share the backup FSs (in links) and Txs and Rxs (at nodes).
Therefore, we now examine the simulation performance of our
SBPP-NLIA in terms of FS, Tx, and Rx shareability, which are
calculated as
Shareability =
∑
i
∑
j ∈Qb,i c j,i
Njb
. (20)
Equation (20) represents the general formula for share-
ability, which indicates the average number of connections,
among which each backup resource is shared. We can obtain
FS shareability by replacing i = l, j = f, Q = F , Tx share-
ability by replacing i = n, j = t, Q = T, and Rx shareability
by replacing i = n, j = r, Q = R, where c f,l is the number
of connections for which backup FS f is allocated in link l.

===== PAGE 11 =====

650 Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking Research Article
9
7
5
4
1
3
2
8 10 14
13
12
11
6
3
7
7
5
46
2
2
3
5
5
6
7
6
4
5
4
3
3
6
1
2
1
(a)
55 60 65 70 75 80 85
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
1.0E-03
1.0E-02
1.0E-01 BBP
Tx,Rx=1400
Tx,Rx=1200
Tx,Rx=1000
Tx,Rx=800
(b)
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
0.1
0.14
0.18
0.22
0.26
0.3
0.34
0.38
0.42
0.46
0.5
 Fragmentation
Tx,Rx=1400
Tx,Rx=1200
Tx,Rx=1000
Tx,Rx=800
(c)
Fig. 5. (a) Network with 14 nodes (link distance is in 100s of kilometers). (b), (c) Performance analysis of the proposed SBPP-NLIA in terms of
BBP and fragmentation.
Likewise, c t,n and c r,n denotes the number of connections for
which backup Tx t at node n and backup Rx r at node n is
allocated, respectively. Fb,l, Tb,n, and Rb,n denotes the set of
backup FSs in link l, backup Txs at node n and backup Rxs at
node n, respectively. Next, Nfb, Ntb, and Nrb represent, respec-
tively, the total number of backup FSs, Txs, and Rxs allocated
in the network.
First, we analyze the performance of SBPP-NLIA with
respect to FS shareability. In Fig. 6(a), the results are plotted
between the trafﬁc load versus the FS shareability by vary-
ing the number of Txs and Rxs. As shown in Fig. 6(a), the
FS shareability increases with an increase in the trafﬁc load.
Further, when the number of available Txs and Rxs in the
network are increased, there is considerable growth in the FS
shareability. This follows from the fact that, as the availability
of Txs and Rxs at each node increases, the blockage of connec-
tions due to a lack of Txs and Rxs decreases. Consequently,
more connections are established, which results in higher
shareability. Figures 6(b) and 6(c) illustrate the performance
of SBPP-NLIA in terms, respectively, of the Tx and Rx share-
ability. It shows a similar trend as the results of FS shareability
with respect to the trafﬁc load and the available number of
Txs and Rxs at each node. It is worth mentioning that the Tx
and Rx shareability is greater than the FS shareability at any
instant because the FS allocation additionally must satisfy the
continuity and contiguity constraints.
B. Comparison of the Proposed SBPP-NLIA with
Full-Load QoT
In this section, we investigate the performance comparison
between our proposed SBPP-NLIA and the existing full-load
QoT scheme (assuming all FSs in the network are lit). In this
regard, we compare both the schemes in terms of the total
number of FSs, Txs, and Rxs used and the BBP , fragmentation,
and FS shareability at different trafﬁc load conditions. The
results in Figs. 7 and 8 illustrate that our proposed SBPP-NLIA
outperforms the existing full-load QoT scheme with respect to
all considered performance metrics. This is because our SBPP-
NLIA calculates the actual NLI at each FS, considering existing
network trafﬁc conditions. On the other hand, a full-load QoT
scheme computes the NLI at each FS with the assumption that
all FSs in the network are lit. As a result, the NLI at any FS is
overestimated, particularly in the initial state of the network
when there are no connections or few connections, which leads
to degraded performance. In addition, calculating the actual
NLI (based on actual trafﬁc) allows us to use different MFs
for different FSs (bitloading) based on the minimum possible
45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
1.75
1.8
1.85
1.9
1.95
2
 FS Shareability
Tx,Rx=1400
Tx,Rx=1200
Tx,Rx=1000
Tx,Rx=800
(a)
45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
2.35
2.4
2.45
2.5
2.55
2.6
2.65
2.7
Tx Shareability
Tx,Rx=1400
Tx,Rx=1200
Tx,Rx=1000
Tx,Rx=800
(b)
45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
2.4
2.45
2.5
2.55
2.6
2.65
2.7
Rx Shareability
Tx,Rx=1400
Tx,Rx=1200
Tx,Rx=1000
Tx,Rx=800
(c)
Fig. 6. Performance analysis of the proposed SBPP-NLIA in terms of (a) FS shareability, (b) Tx shareability, and (c) Rx shareability.

===== PAGE 12 =====

Research Article Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking 651
20 25 30 35 40 45
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
1400
1800
2200
2600
3000
3400Total number of FSs used in the network
SBPP-NLIA
Full load QoT
(a)
20 25 30 35 40 45
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000Total number of Txs used in the network
SBPP-NLIA
Full load QoT
(b)
20 25 30 35 40 45
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000Total number of Rxs used in the network
SBPP-NLIA
Full load QoT
(c)
Fig. 7. Performance comparison (considering an adequate number of Txs and Rxs are available) of the proposed SBPP-NLIA with a full-load
QoT scheme in terms of the total number of (a) FSs used in the network, (b) Txs used in the network, and (c) Rxs used in the network.
60 65 70 75 80 85 90
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
1.0E-03
1.0E-02
1.0E-01 BBP
SBPP-NLIA-BL
Full load QoT-BL
SBPP-NLIA-UM
SBPP-SWP
Full load QoT-UM
(a)
45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
0.55
0.6
0.65 Fragmentation SBPP-NLIA-BL
Full load QoT-BL
SBPP-NLIA-UM
Full load QoT-UM
SBPP-SWP
(b)
20 25 30 35 40 45 50
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
1.75
1.8
1.85
1.9
1.95FS Shareability
SBPP-SWP
SBPP-NLIA
Full load QoT
(c)
Fig. 8. Performance comparison (considering an adequate number of Txs and Rxs are available) of the proposed SBPP-NLIA with SBPP-SWP
and a full-load QoT scheme in terms of (a) BBP , (b) fragmentation, and (c) FS shareability. UM, uniform modulation; BL, bitloading.
SINR (considering each link failure scenario). This enables
the efﬁcient resource allocation while establishing the working
and backup path of each connection. Conversely, uniform
modulation was incorporated at each FS of a connection in
the existing full-load QoT scheme. Because of these reasons,
the performance of the full-load QoT scheme is degraded
compared to our proposed SBPP-NLIA with respect to each
performance metric, as shown in Figs. 7 and 8.
Now, we analyze the advantage of our proposed bitload-
ing technique compared to the existing uniform modulation
scheme in terms of BBP and fragmentation. For this purpose,
we employed the bitloading technique to the full-load QoT
scheme and uniform modulation to our proposed SBPP-NLIA
heuristic, and the results are plotted in Figs. 8(a) and 8(b). It
is evident from the results that our proposed bitloading tech-
nique shows superior performance compared to the uniform
modulation scheme in terms of BBP and fragmentation. It
should be noted that the difference between the performance
of a full-load QoT with bitloading and uniform modulation
is not signiﬁcant because the SINR at each FS in every link
is the same, except at the FSs present at two edges of a link.
On the other hand, our SBPP-NLIA exploits the full beneﬁt
of the proposed spectrum efﬁcient bitloading technique and
performs signiﬁcantly better than the uniform modulation
scheme, as shown in Figs. 8(a) and 8(b).
C. Comparison of the Proposed SBPP-NLIA with
Existing Works
In this section, we compare our proposed SBPP-NLIA with
the SBPP-spectrum window plane (SBPP-SWP) algorithm
presented in [13] and margin-based RMSA schemes. For a fair
comparison with SBPP-SWP , we incorporated the following
simulation settings. First, while implementing our SBPP-
NLIA, we assume that an adequate number of Txs and Rxs
are available at each node, similar to the case in SBPP-SWP .
Next, we modiﬁed the SBPP-SWP algorithm to account for
impairments during the RSA process with uniform modula-
tion and compared to our proposed robust bitloading method.
Figures 8(a) and 8(b) demonstrate that our SBPP-NLIA shows
superior performance compared to SBPP-SWP in terms of
BBP and fragmentation. However, SBPP-SWP performs better
than SBPP-NLIA with respect to FS shareability, as shown in
Fig. 8(c). This is because SBPP-SWP employs a separate cost
function for better backup FS sharing, while our SBPP-NLIA
achieves sharing with the objective function itself.

===== PAGE 13 =====

652 Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking Research Article
Next, we investigate the performance comparison between
the proposed SBPP-NLIA and margin-based RMSA schemes
[29] in terms of BBP , fragmentation, and percentage of QoT
failed connections. In this process, we implemented SBPP-
NLIA by setting a margin of 2 dB and 4 dB. Since our method
of allocation (i.e., SBPP-NLIA with zero margin) avoids the
incoming connection to be placed beside the existing con-
nection in the case of QoT failure, fragmentation might be
increased, resulting in more BBP . However, our method of
allocation still performs much better in terms of BBP than the
existing margin-based methods. This is because, with margin,
the SINR threshold of each MF is increased due to which lower
MFs are assigned to each FS speciﬁcally at the beginning of
allocation. This results in the allocation of more FSs for each
connection, which gradually leads to more BBP . Next, since the
QoT of the existing connections is not checked in a margin-
based scheme while allocating any new connection, a certain
amount of existing connections might fail the QoT guarantee
at some stage, whereas our method always protects the QoT of
the existing connections. Due to the reasons mentioned above,
our proposed SBPP-NLIA performs better than margin-based
RMSA in terms of BBP and QoT failed connections while
compromising little in terms of fragmentation, as shown in
Fig. 9 and Table 1.
60 65 70 75 80 85 90
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
1.0E-03
1.0E-02
1.0E-01 BBP
SBPP-NLIA
2 dB margin
4 dB margin
(a)
45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90
Traffic load capacity (Tbps)
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45 Fragmentation
SBPP-NLIA
2 dB margin
4 dB margin
(b)
Fig. 9. Performance comparison (considering an adequate number
of Txs and Rxs are available) of SBPP-NLIA with margin-based
schemes in terms of (a) BBP and (b) fragmentation.
T able 1. Comparative Results at 75 Tb/s Traffic Load
Allocation Method Margin
Percentage of QoT
Failed Connections
Fixed margin
techniques
2 dB 3.76
4 dB 1.02
Proposed SBPP-NLIA 0 dB 0
7. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we developed an RMSA design in an SBPP EON
(SBPP-NLIA heuristic) that ensures the E2E QoT against non-
linear impairments in the working and backup paths of each
connection under any single link failure and no link failure
conditions. We also maintained the minimum required E2E
QoT at each FS of every existing connection during the allo-
cation of any new connection without reserving any margin.
T o achieve this with less complexity, we proposed a recursive
method to calculate the maximum possible NLI of the existing
connections, which reduced the computational complexity
by a factor of a square of number of links in the network. Our
simulation results illustrated that the proposed multi-objective
function provides signiﬁcant shareability in terms of FSs, Txs,
and Rxs. We also demonstrated that our proposed SBPP-NLIA
outperforms the full-load assumption scheme and existing
SBPP-SWP algorithm with respect to various performance
metrics.
APPENDIX A: PROOF OF OPTIMALITY
As explained in Step 3 of Section 5.D.3, assigning an MF to
each FS of every connection turns out to be optimal.
Claim 1: Since we assume equal power for each MF , the NLI
at any FS does not depend on the MF of other FSs. Therefore,
allocation of an MF to any FS is independent of the MFs allo-
cated to the other FSs.
We consider the allocation of connection C with
requested data rate Dc . We assume that j number of FSs
{ f1, f2,..., f j } with MFs {m1, m2,..., m j } are already
allocated for connectionC. Therefore, it satisﬁes
j∑
i=1
Dmi = D j, (A1)
where Dmi denotes the data rate allocated to FS fi with MF
mi and D j represents the data rate allocated with j number
of FSs. We assume that D j< Dc ; i.e., we must consider the
allocation of FS j + 1 to satisfy the requested data rate. Note
that the allocation of FS j + 1 introduces NLI on existing FSs
{ f1, f2,..., f j }, which degrades the SINR and might lead
to a QoT violation. Let us consider that the QoT of FS fk for
some k = {1, 2,..., j } is violated. In this case, according to
our proposed method, we change the MF of FS fk to the next
low-level highest available MF m∗ to guarantee the QoT . This
does not disturb the QoT of any other FS, as mentioned in
Claim 1. Now, with this new m∗, D j in Eq. (A1) will become
D∗
j . From our allocation, we know that
SINR fk ≤ SINRm
th ∀ m> m∗, (A2)

===== PAGE 14 =====

Research Article Vol. 14, No. 8 / August 2022 / Journal of Optical Communications and Networking 653
where SINR fk denotes the SINR at FS fk and SINR m
th
represents the SINR threshold of MFm.
Suppose ∃m′such that m′> m∗; then, if we consider the
allocation of m′ to FS fk, it is evident from Eq. (A2) that the
QoT of fk is violated.
Suppose ∃m′such that m′< m∗; then, if we consider the
allocation of m′ to FS fk, D j in Eq. (A1) will becomeD′
j . Note
that D′
j< D∗
j (since Dm′< Dm∗), which indicates that more
FSs are required withm′ than m∗.
From the discussion above, it is evident that any MF
m′ ̸= m∗ leads to either a QoT violation or the allocation
of more FSs, which indicates thatm∗ is optimal. Therefore, our
proposed MF allocation for each connection is optimal.
APPENDIX B: RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SINR
AND BER
The probability of bit error for various modulation formats is
calculated as [27]
PBPSK = 0.5 × erfc
(√
SINR
)
,
PM-QAM = 2(
√
M − 1)√
M log2 M
erfc
(√
3SINR
2(M − 1)
)
.
REFERENCES
1. B. C. Chatterjee, N. Sarma, and E. Oki, “Routing and spectrum allo-
cation in elastic optical networks: a tutorial,” IEEE Commun. Surv.
Tutorials 17, 1776–1800 (2015).
2. H. Beyranvand and J. A. Salehi, “A quality-of-transmission aware
dynamic routing and spectrum assignment scheme for future
elastic optical networks,” J. Lightwave Technol. 31, 3043–3054
(2013).
3. A. Fontinele, I. Santos, J. N. Neto, D. R. Campelo, and A. Soares,
“An efficient IA-RMLSA algorithm for transparent elastic optical net-
works,” Comput. Netw. 118, 1–14 (2017).
4. N. Dharmaweera, L. Yan, M. Karlsson, and E. Agrell, “An
impairment-aware resource allocation scheme for dynamic elas-
tic optical networks,” in Optical Fiber Communication Conference
(2017), paper Th2A.19.
5. J. Zhao, H. Wymeersch, and E. Agrell, “Nonlinear impairment-aware
static resource allocation in elastic optical networks,” J. Lightwave
Technol. 33, 4554–4564 (2015).
6. S. Behera, J. George, and G. Das, “Effect of transmission impair-
ments in CO-OFDM based elastic optical network design,” Comput.
Netw. 144, 242–253 (2018).
7. S. Behera, A. Deb, G. Das, and B. Mukherjee, “Impairment aware
routing, bit loading, and spectrum allocation in elastic optical
networks,” J. Lightwave Technol. 37, 3009–3020 (2019).
8. M. Habibi and H. Beyranvand, “Impairment-aware manycast rout-
ing, modulation level, and spectrum assignment in elastic optical
networks,” J. Opt. Commun. Netw. 11, 179–189 (2019).
9. R. Wang, S. Bidkar, F . Meng, R. Nejabati, and D. Simeonidou,
“Load-aware nonlinearity estimation for elastic optical network
resource optimization and management,” J. Opt. Commun. Netw.
11, 164–178 (2019).
10. R. Krishnamurthy and T. Srinivas, “Physical layer impairments
aware routing and spectrum allocation algorithm for transparent
flexible-grid optical networks,” Comput. Commun. 153, 507–514
(2020).
11. G. Shen, H. Guo, and S. K. Bose, “Survivable elastic optical net-
works: survey and perspective,” Photon. Netw. Commun. 31, 71–87
(2016).
12. B. Chen, J. Zhang, Y . Zhao, J. P . Jue, S. Huang, W. Gu, and G.
Shen, “Spectrum-aware survivable strategies with failure proba-
bility constraints under static traffic in flexible bandwidth optical
networks,” J. Lightwave Technol. 32, 4221–4234 (2014).
13. C. Wang, G. Shen, and S. K. Bose, “Distance adaptive dynamic
routing and spectrum allocation in elastic optical networks
with shared backup path protection,” J. Lightwave Technol. 33,
2955–2964 (2015).
14. A. L. F . Lourenço and A. C. César, “Algorithm for shared path pro-
tection in elastic optical network based on spectrum partition,” in
SBMO/IEEE MTT -S International Microwave and Optoelectronics
Conference (IMOC) (IEEE, 2017).
15. X. Luo, C. Shi, L. Wang, X. Chen, Y . Li, and T. Yang, “Leveraging
double-agent-based deep reinforcement learning to global opti-
mization of elastic optical networks with enhanced survivability,”
Opt. Express 27, 7896–7911 (2019).
16. C.-F . Hsu, H.-C. Hu, H.-F . Fu, J.-J. Zheng, and S.-X. Chen,
“Spectrum usage minimization for shared backup path protec-
tion in elastic optical networks,” in International Conference on
Computing, Networking and Communications (ICNC) (IEEE, 2019),
pp. 602–606.
17. E. E. Moghaddam, H. Beyranvand, and J. A. Salehi, “Routing, spec-
trum and modulation level assignment, and scheduling in survivable
elastic optical networks supporting multi-class traffic,” J. Lightwave
Technol. 36, 5451–5461 (2018).
18. A. Cai, J. Guo, R. Lin, G. Shen, and M. Zukerman, “Multicast
routing and distance-adaptive spectrum allocation in elastic opti-
cal networks with shared protection,” J. Lightwave Technol. 34,
4076–4088 (2016).
19. F . Tang, W. Shao, L. Xiang, S. K. Bose, and G. Shen, “Mixed channel
traffic grooming for IP over EON with SBPP-based cross-layer pro-
tection,” J. Lightwave Technol. 35, 3836–3848 (2017).
20. A. Eira, J. Santos, J. Pedro, and J. Pires, “Design of survivable
flexible-grid DWDM networks with joint minimization of transponder
cost and spectrum usage,” in European Conference and Exhibition
on Optical Communication (2012), paper P5.16.
21. A. Eira, J. Santos, J. Pedro, and J. Pires, “Multi-objective design of
survivable flexible-grid DWDM networks,” J. Opt. Commun. Netw.
6, 326–339 (2014).
22. H. D. Thanh, M. Morvan, and P . Gravey, “On the usage of flexible
transponder in survivable transparent flex-grid optical network,” in
9th International Symposium on Communication Systems, Networks
& Digital Sign (CSNDSP) (IEEE, 2014), pp. 1123–1127.
23. K. Walkowiak, P . Lechowicz, and M. Klinkowski, “Transceiver shar-
ing in survivable spectrally-spatially flexible optical networks,” in
IEEE Global Communications Conference (GLOBECOM) (IEEE,
2018).
24. K. Walkowiak, R. Go ´scie ´n, P . Lechowicz, and A. Włodarczyk,
“Comparison of various sharing approaches in survivable translu-
cent optical networks,” in International Conference on Computer
Communications and Networks (ICCCN) (IEEE, 2021).
25. M. Song, E. Pincemin, A. Josten, B. Bäuerle, D. Hillerkuss, J.
Leuthold, R. Rudnick, D. Marom, S. B. Ezra, J. Ferran, G. Thouenon,
P . S. Khodashenas, J. M. Rivas-Moscoso, C. Betoule, D. Klonidis,
and I. Tomkos, “Flexible optical cross-connects for high bit rate
elastic photonic transport networks,” J. Opt. Commun. Netw. 8,
A126–A140 (2016).
26. P . Johannisson and E. Agrell, “Modeling of nonlinear signal distor-
tion in fiber-optic networks,” J. Lightwave Technol. 32, 4544–4552
(2014).
27. M. Ali, B. Dai, and X. Wang, “16-QAM all-optical OFDM system per-
formance evaluation with time and frequency offsets,” Microw. Opt.
Technol. Lett. 57, 1593–1597 (2015).
28. P . R. Wilson, M. S. Johnstone, M. Neely, and D. Boles, “Dynamic
storage allocation: a survey and critical review,” in International
Workshop on Memory Management (Springer, 1995), pp. 1–116.
29. L. R. Costa, Í. B. Brasileiro, and A. C. Drummond, “Low margin QoT-
aware RMLSA with circuit invigoration in elastic optical networks,”
in IEEE Global Communications Conference (GLOBECOM) (IEEE,
2020).
